# fiftyfive-wicket Release Notes

## 3.0

**Please note that our maven URLs have recently changed.** Release and snapshots artifacts
are now stored in separate repositories. The new URLs are:

* `http://opensource.55minutes.com/maven-releases/`
* `http://opensource.55minutes.com/maven-snapshots/`

### Requirements

* **fiftyfive-wicket now requires Wicket 1.5 and Java 1.6.**
* **Projects generated by the archetype now require `compass`.**

### Major enhancements

* **Apache Shiro support**

### Dependencies

* The bundled versions of jQuery and jQuery UI are now at 1.6.4 and 1.8.16, respectively.
* Spring updated to 3.0.6.
* SLF4j updated to 1.6.2.

### New source code organization and conventions

* **The `fiftyfive-wicket` artifact is now named `fiftyfive-wicket-core`.** There is no longer
  a `fiftyfive-wicket` artifact.
* **The `fiftyfive-wicket-examples` module has been removed.** The project documentation and
  samples provided in the archetype serve as a replacement.
* The parent POM is now at the root of the project, rather than in `parent/pom.xml`. This more
  closely matches standard practices for multi-module maven projects.
* The module directory names now exactly match the name of the module. For example, the
  `fiftyfive-wicket-js` artifact is now in a `fiftyfive-wicket-js` directory, instead of just `js`.
* We've changed our coding style to no longer use leading underscores for instance variable names.
* All `pom.xml` files have been updated to eliminate warnings in Maven 3.
* We now use Wicket's built-in `Args` and `Checks` assertion helpers instead using `fiftyfive-util`.

### CSS and JavaScript resource merging

* `org.wicketstuff:wicketstuff-merged-resources` is no longer a dependency.
* `install()` takes the place of `build()`.
* Implementation has changed to use the new Wicket 1.5 URL mounting/mapping system.

### Archetype

* We no longer suggest `@MountPath` annotations for mounting bookmarkable pages, which scatters
  URL defintions throughout a project. Instead our recommendation is to use Wicket's standard
  procedural methods for mounting pages in a central location. We've factored this into a special
  class called `WicketMappings`.
* `org.wicketstuff:annotation` and `org.wicketstuff:wicketstuff-merged-resources` dependencies
  have been removed.
* `BasePage` has now been separated into `BasePage` and `EmptyPage`.
* The `_body` variable exposed by `BasePage` has been made private; a public `getBody()` method
  serves as the replacement.
* We now suggest using Wicket's `IRequestCycleListener` plugin system instead overriding
  `newRequestCycle()`.
* We have a new organization for stylesheets that demonstrates many of the powerful features of
  Compass.
* The `compass` command-line tool is now integrated with the Maven build process.
* We now include a `.gitignore` file.

### Other new classes and methods

* [PatternMountedMapper](http://opensource.55minutes.com/apidocs/fiftyfive-wicket-all/3.0-SNAPSHOT/index.html?fiftyfive/wicket/mapper/PatternMountedMapper.html)
* [HttpUtils.getAbsolutePageUrl()](http://opensource.55minutes.com/apidocs/fiftyfive-wicket-all/3.0-SNAPSHOT/fiftyfive/wicket/util/HttpUtils.html#getAbsolutePageUrl())
* [Shortcuts.cssResource(filename, media)](http://opensource.55minutes.com/apidocs/fiftyfive-wicket-all/3.0-SNAPSHOT/fiftyfive/wicket/util/Shortcuts.html#cssResource(java.lang.String,%20java.lang.String))
* [Shortcuts.cssResource(scope, filename, media)](http://opensource.55minutes.com/apidocs/fiftyfive-wicket-all/3.0-SNAPSHOT/fiftyfive/wicket/util/Shortcuts.html#cssResource(java.lang.Class,%20java.lang.String,%20java.lang.String))
